高三英语参考答案、提示及评分细则
听力部分录音稿
( Te.zt 1)
M: Before leaving the supermarket , make sure you've got everything you want.
W': Yes, I have bought all the things on the shopping list,
M; Great, Wait for me to get the car, We can go home now,
(Texr 2)
W : Oh, you look not skilled on that thing. Do you think it was wise of us to hire bicycles?
M: Don’t worry. I passed my test on a motorbilke,
W : But it was years ago, You’ve been driving all the time and never ride a bike,
(Tezt 3)
W : Have you found a roommate to share your apartment?
M, Not yet.
W : I heard Kevin is looking for an apartment near our school.,
M; Thanks, I'll talk to him.
(Tezr 4)
M, These boolks belong to school but now they are ruined by yos,
W: I'm sorry, Mr, Mason. I suppose the man at the shop didn’t pack my food properly before 1 put them in my schoolbag,
M; You should have checked them then, Now. just send for the cleaner,
(Texr 5)
M: Why didn’t sormeone say my dinner was ready? It's almost gone cold,
W : Philip , I told you it was ready before you went upstairs, Then I sent your sister to tell you and also your dad shouted up to you five
minutes ago,
( Te.xzt 6)
W': I wonder if I'll need my umbrella today,
M; Yeah, it doesn’t look very nice out there, does it?
W : True, but it’s been cloudy like this for days, yet it stayed dry.
M, What does the weather report say?
W : Not much, I asked my phone’s virtual assistant, but it just said it may rain today. There’s a 51 % chance at 10 =00 am
M: Very belpful.,
W': I know, It might as well say your gues is as good as mine,
M: Huh. You'd better take one anyway. Better to be prepared,
W : Good point, And I guess I can take my travel umbrella, It's small,
(Texr 7)
W': I can’t believe it! I've lost my whole story.
M: What'’s happened?
W : All of a sudden. my screen went black, When I came back on- there was nothing there, I spent all morn
ning writing that story
M; Did you save it as you went along?
W : I thought I did., but the computer saves things itself, doesn’t it?
M; I don’t trust that. Have a look to see if there's a copy on your backup.
W': There’s nothing there, I checked.
M, Oh, dear!
W': Well. that's said a wbole morming has been wasted, I'll just have to do the whole thing again,
M: How annoying! It has happened to me before, Come on, let's go to lunch, You might fcel better after eating something
W; OK. I have no better choice,
( Te.xt 8)
M; I really do need some money. 1 never seem to have anything these days,
W': Have you ever thought about getting a job?
M; Not until my graduation, but I'll have to wait for three months, I need money this week.
W : Maybe some kind of part-time job, Before that : you could borrow something- but I wouldn’t advise that,
【高三10月质量检测·英语参考答案第1页（共6页）】
M: I suppose you're right, I should look for a part-time job,
W : I've already begun looking for full-time jobs,
M; Maybe I should be doing that as well. Have you been invited for any interviews?
W : I haven’t actually applied anywhere yet. I've just looked at what kind of job that is being offered,
M; What are you thinking of doing?
W : I'd like to be a translator, but maybe be a teacher if I feel that, How about you?
M: For my careers I want to do engineering.
( Te.xt 9)
W': That smells good! What are you making?
M: My breakfast for tomorrow,
W : But it’s almost dinner time,
M: Well, I've got a very early start tomorrow morning.
W': What are you going to do?
M; I've got a meeting at my company's head office, If I don’t prepare, I know I'll end up eating something unhealthy at the train
station, I've also made a salad to take with me for lunch,
W': Wow, I've never known you to be this organized. You're very serious about losing weight. aren’t you?
M; I am. and I'm happy to say it's working,
W : Oh, really?
M; Yes, I've lost six kilos since I started at the beginning of the yeax, I weighed 95 kilos when I started in January,
W': That’s anmazing! And in only four months! Have you been cxercising, too?
M; Yes, I used to take the bus to work and now I ride a bike instead,
W : That's really great, Maybe I should try to learn from you,
M: You don't need to lose any weight,
W : I may be slim, but I eat way too much junk food and I drive everywhere, even when it would be easy to walk,
M, Well, I can lend you the book that inspired me,
W': That would be great! Thanks,
(Texr 10)
M: Honestly, I can’t believe mny dream has come true, As a young man, I have always been imagining moving to Los Angeles one day
and puting my whole heart into music, Of course, at tbe time, this seemed lilke a very distant hope. But thanks to my fans,
supporters and wife, I'm here today. First, I released three twelve-song records, which slowly gained attention aroumd my
hometown in northern England, and some nearby regions like Scotland and Ireland, And now my latest project, which was just a
single song, caught the world’s attention, For that, I’d say it only happened because I refused to give up,. Through the ups and
downs in my career I did it all for the love of music, So being recognized for this award means a lot to me, To all the youmg
musicians out there, you can do it, too, Plus, to all the fans and anyone enjoying my music, I've done this for you, This award is
for all of us, May many more great things come in the future, Now, put your hands together for our host, Bob Ackerman, with
the next award,
考答案
1~5 BAABC 6~10 BCACB 11~15 ACACA 16~20 BBACC
【答案与解析】
本文是一篇应用文。文章主要介绍了一个有关库斯科印加文明遗迹的讲座，涉及参与形式、讲座专家以及费用等方面的内容。
21. C细节理解题。 根据 General Notes 部分“-- you will have the opportumity to ask the instructor live questions using the Q&-A
box.“可知，参与者可以通过间答框和讲师互动。
22. A细节 理解题。 根据 At a Glanee 部分*Explore the streets of Cusco in search of the remains of a city that long ago disappeared, *
及 Featured Expert: Osear Oviedo Velasce 部β 5分=Oscar Oviedo Velasco has over 15 years of experience as a local cxpert and Group
Leader,”可知。Oscar 拥有超过十五年的当地专家和小组领导经验，即他长时间探索库斯科这座城市。
23, A组节理解题。 根据 General Notes 部分“ You will also have access to a recording of the whole lecture that you can watch any
time within the two weeks following the live event, *及 Price 部分*.., a recording of the lecture, "可知 •参与者付的 25 美元费用包
含了讲座录音的两周使用权。
【答案与解析】
本文是一算记叙文。文章主要讲述了Joel和 Sbelley 这对飞行员夫妻的爱情故事。
24, A 推理判断题 。 根据第段“Lovr Is in she Air is one of the most popular wedding songs—it describes the invisible magic of this
incredible feeling,For Joel and Shelley。 love is literally in the air.,., *可知 ,作者在第一段提到的这首歌正是本文两位主人公的爱
情故事写照。由此可推断-作者提及这首歌是为了呈现文章主题。
【高三10月质量检测·英语参考答案第2页（共6页）】
25, C 推理判断题。 根据第 三段“*She's taller than me, She's an athlete a natural leader- and just an impressive person, I didn’t
know if she would consider going out with me,’ Joel recalled, “ 可推断,Joel 第次见到 Shelley 的时候不太自信,国为他觉得
Shelley 特别能眼。
26, B细节理解题。根据第五段“.-, so a few months after they came back to their country。 they tied the knot, "及第六段“In tht
early 2000s, the married couple welcomed their twins and Shelley decided to take some time off flying. . , *a[ f@I , Joel 和I Shelley
国外回来不久之后就结婚了
27. B 细节理解题。根据例数第三段及倒数第二段“Joel loved the iden and encouraged Shelley to go an to study and update ber pilot
qualifications,"可知、作为丈夫的Joel 支持妻子追求梦想。
【答案与解析】
本文是一算说明文。研究人员发现，从深海海底开采的多金属结核可能是生活在那里的动植物和细菌的氧气来源。一些矿业公
司希望对其进行开发和利用·但环保人士认为这样徽会对深海生态系统造或伤害。
28, D 细节理解题。 根据第段“.., may be a source of oxygen for the animals。 plants and bacteria living there, This discovery of
this *dark oxygen’has the potential to rock negotiations..”及第二段可知,研究人员发现，深海海底的多金属结核也许能够释放
氧气·这一发现令人吃惊。
29.C推理判断题。根据第四段可知，该公司认为在海底采矿影响很小，又根据“... companies such as Canada’s The Metals Co,
have been working to persuade the intermational goverming authority to grenlight their plans to harvest these metallic nodules in the
Pacific Ocean’s Clarion Clipper Zone,.,”可推断，该公司这样说是为了确保自己开采深海海底的多金属结核的计划能够得以
实施。
30.B推理判断题。根据例数第二段可知，环保人士认为·开采深海中的多金属结核会产生不可预见的灾难性后果，因此他们正敦
促立法者禁止该行业挖握地球上最后一个“未受影响“的生态系统之一，又根据上一段可推断，他们希望看到“宣布在海底开采多
金属结核为非法行为”。
31.D词义猜测题。画线词后说明了深海区域的多金属结核对其生态系统的重要性，由此可推断，对该地区进行开采的代价可能超
乎想象。由此可知，画线词可以用-严重的后果"替代。
【答案与解析】
本文是一篇说明文。人类会使用大量的手势、改变说话的速度和语气并轮流对话以便让别人理解我们的观点。一项研究的观察
结果表明·黑显翌可能和我们一样·会迅建轮流说话·有时甚至会打断对方。
32. D 细节理解题。根据前两段,尤其是第—段*We aren’t the only members of the animal kingdom to do this, "和第二段“*Bat it
was an open question whether other animals share this conversational structure, * 可 知,在这 个研究的观察结果出 现 之前。
Catherine Hobaiter不确定人类轮流说话的交流是否独一无二。
33.C细节理解题。根据第三段可知，研究人员使用计算机软件分析黑理理的手势互动。
34. A细节理解题。根据创数第二段 尤其是**We did see a little variation anmong different chimp communities。 which again matches
what we see in people—there are slight cultural variations in the pace of conversation; some cultures have slower or faster talkers, *
Badihi said,"可知,黑痤痤不同群体的对话节奏可能不同。排除B项的关键词是 remain。
35.D主旨大意题。通读全文·尤其是第一段和最后一段可知·研究表明，黑痤壁和人类在沟通交流方面有相似之处，人类的交流可
能并不像曾经想的那么独特。
【答案与解析】
本文是一算说明文。文章主要介绍了直觉的力量、依据以及如何更好地利用直觉的建议。
36.G上一句提到的"我们仔细分析、推理和思考，从面作出决策和解决问题”和G项“然面，有时我们的大脑会跳过思维过程，立即
得出结论“形成转折关系
37.A上一句提到“研究者探索了大量的研究和现实生活中的例子”。A项“它们展示了直觉的力量”正是研究和例子得出的结论。
38.E下一句的“他们通过多年经验和对各种艺术风格和技巧的接触磨衡了自己的直觉”正是对E项“研究发现，他们在儿秒钟内就
作出了准确判断”的解释说明
39.D此空设于段首，是此段的主题句。根据空后列举的两个例子可知，此段主要讲述“直觉在个人和专业领域都起着指导作用”。
故D项符合。
40.C上一句提到“尽管直觉可以提供有价值的见解，但它并非整如磐石”，故C项“有时情绪可能会影响我们的判断"是对上一句的
进—步网释。 本段的最后句旬*These practices help to develop a deeper understanding of the factors influencing your intuition, at也
是解题的一个线索。
【答案与解析】
本文是一篇记叙文。作者每天需要徽的事情很多·然副平衡这些事情让作者筋疲力尽。作者无意间发现了一本书并采取了书中
作者提到的“早起“方法。在作者的坚持下，作者的生活有了积极变化。
41.D根据第三段可知，“我“得到了（getting）一份新工作。
42.C平衡（Balancing>这些事情让“我“疫惫不堪，有时候”我”只想一个人待着不和任何人说话。
【高三10月质量检测·英语参考答案第3页（共6页）】
44. B根据空后。.., after getting up just half an hour earlier than usual. "可知 ,生活发生了变化(changed),
45.C根据后文可知，“我“想要（desire}寻求积极改变-因此“我“尝试了那个作者的方法（method）。
46.A见上题解析。
47. A根据空后的内容及倒数第二段中的关键词 habits 可知•空后是“我*的日程安排（schedule)
48.C根据空后造成的不良后果可知，起初，早起对“我"来说确实具有挑故性（challenging）。
R盘 (issues) 。
50.D见上题解析。
51. B*裁"依然(still>选择继续。
52. A上文提到是一些基本的（basic>习。第二段".., followed the following simple..,“中的 simple 是解题关键。
53.C*我*更加专注，拥有了度过（go through)一天的耐力。 take up 占据;coumt on 指望;set aside 留出。
54.A对“我"来说，事情真的变得不一样（different）了。
55.B在清晨的独处中开始你的一天有助于你保持高效（efficiently)完或任务所需的注意力。
【答案与解析】
本文是一算新闻报道。75 岁的意大利徒步旅行家Vienna Cammarota 于今年8月份抵达中国，面她这次跨越两万两千公里的徒
步旅行开始于2022年·起点是意大利的威尼斯。如今·这位有冒险精神的旅行者计划完成为期15个月的中国文化之旅，想要重游
Marco Polo 曾走过的丝绸之路。
56.which考查定语从句。分析句子结构可知，该空引导的是一个非限制性定语从句-从句缺少主语，先行词是Venice，指逃点，故此
处用关系代词 which。虽然空前有时间状语 in 2022，但是根据空后的 birthplace 可排除填 when,
57.cxplorer考查词形转换。该空指Marco Polo，指人-故此处用所给动词的名词cxplorer，意为“探险家”。
58.enthusiastically考查词形转换。此处用所给形容词的副词修饰请语动词 welcomed.
60.beginning考查非谓语动词。分析句子成分可知，该空填非谓语动词，动词 begin 与其逻辑主语 Cammarota 存在主谓关系，故此
处用所给动词的现在分词。
61.what考查名词性从句。分析句子结构可知，该空引导的是一个宾语从句。从句中缺少主语，指事，故此处用连接词 what.
62,regions考查名词复数。根据空前 over 30 cities in 17 provinces and autonomous 可知,此处用所给名词复数。
63.an考查冠词。此处意为-一位有冒险精神和受文化驱动的旅行者”，故用不定冠词，又因为adventurous 以元音音素开头，故用不
定冠词 an.
64,studied考查动词的时态。根据时间状语in 2000 可知，此处用所给动词的过去式。
65,to experience考查非谓语动词。“aim to do sth."意为“旨在做某事”,为固定用法。
第一节
One possible version;
Nowadays. more and more students are using electronic devices. such as smartphones and Padss for their studies,
Obviously 。 electronic devices serve as a powerful tool for enhancing students’ performance, These devices provide access to a
wealth of resources。 and allow students to engage with material in interactive ways+ thus promoting students’ learning efficiency.
However, these eletronic devices can distract students, reduce attention spans , and foster reliance on quick, superficial information,
Undoubtedly - the integration of electronic devices in learning is an inevitable trend, When it comes to harnessing them. students
should adopt proper ways。 including scheduling the time scientifically and developing good learning habits, so that they can benefit
from electronic devices,
第二节
One possible version:
Laa couracted Lzpre through thz Iuteneet, When Lepre received the message from Lau, who offered to make a custom surfboard
for her- she was quite surprised. After Lau shared what he had done to malke a difference to those who had lost their surfboards
because of the fire, Lepre accepted Lau's offer, telling him what she'd lost and what her trensured long custom surfboard was like,
The new surfboard crafted by Lau allowed Lepre to get back in the water and start healing.
Laα dlecided to Ael p more people like Lepre αnd Le pre joined him, Lau requested cash donations to cover the cost of materials for
shaping custom surfboards to give away, To ensure Lau could create perfectly suitable custom surfboards for those victims. Lepre
posted contact information on social media and encouraged them to send messages to describe their needs, Working together , Lau and
Lepre donated more carefully designed and crafted custom surfboards。 which were well received by those who had lost theirs during the
disaster and helped those people move forward,
【高三10月质量检测·英语参考答案第4页（共6页）】
写作的评分细则
第一节（满分15分）
()评分原期
1.本题总分为15分，按5个档次给分。
3.词数少于60或多于100的，从总分中减去2分。
4.评分时，应注意的主要内容为：内容要点、应用词汇和语法结构的丰富性和准确性及上下文的连贯性。
5.拼写与标点符号是语言准确性的一个方面，评分时，应视其对交际的影响程度予以考虑。英、美拼写及词汇用法均可接受。
6.若书写较差以致影响交际，酌情扣分。
（二）各档次的给分范围和要求
第五档(13~15 分)
完全完成试题规定的任务。
覆盖所有内容要点。
应用较多的语法结构和词汇
语法结构或词汇方面有些许错误，但为尽力使用较复杂结构或较高级词汇所致；具备较强的语言运用能力。
有效地使用语句间的连接成分，使全文结构紧凑。
一完全达到预期的写作目的。
第四档(10~12 分)
完成试题规定的任务。
虽漏掉1~2个次重点，但覆盖所有主要内容。
—应用的语法结构和词汇能满足任务的要求。
语法结构或词汇方面应用基本准确·些许错误主要是因尝试较复杂的语法结构或词汇所致。
—使用简单的语句间连接减分·使全文结构紧凑。
达到预期的写作目的。
第三档(7~9分)
基本完成试题规定的任务。
虽漏掉一些内容·但覆盖所有主要内容。
应用的语法结构和词汇能满足任务的要求
一有一些语法结构或词汇方面的错误，但不影响理解
使用简单的语句间连接成分，使全文内容连贯。
—整体而言，基本达到预期的写作目的。
第二档(4~6 分)
未适当完成试题规定的任务。
漏掉或未描述清楚一些主要内容，写了一些无关内容。
语法结构单润，词汇有限。
-有一些语法结构或词汇方面的错误·且影响对写作内容的理解。
较少使用语句间的连接成分，内容缺乏连贯性。
信息未能清楚地传达给读者。
第档(1~3分)
未完成试题规定的任务。
明显漏掉主要内容，写了一些无关内容，原因可能是未理解试题的要求。
语法结构单调，词汇有限，
—较多语法结构或词汇方面的错误，且影响对写作内容的理解。
缺乏语句间的连接成分，内容不连贯。
信息未能传达给读者。
0分
未能传达给读者任何信息：白卷、内容太少，无法评判：所写内容均与所要求内容无关或所写内容无法看清。
【高三10月质量检测·英语参考答案第5页（共6页）】
第二节（满分25分）
()评分原则
1.本题总分为25分按5个档次给分。
2.评分时，先根据所续写短文的内容和语言初步确定其所属档次，然后以该档次的要求来衡量、确定或调整档次·最后给分。
3.词数少于120的·附情扣分：只写一段的原期上不超过10分。
4.评分时，应主要从以下因个方面考虑：
（1）与所给短文及段落开头语的衔接程度；
(2）内容的丰富性和关键信息的利用情况；
(3）应用语法结构和词汇的丰富性和准确性;
(4）上下文的连贯性。
5.拼写与标点符号是语言准确性的一个重要方面，评分时，应视其对交际的影响程度予以考虑。英、美拼写及词汇用法均可
接受。
6.若书写较差以致影响交际，酌情扣分。
（二）各档次的给分范围和要求
第五档(21~25分)
与所给短文融治度高，与所提供的各段落开头语衔接合理。
内容丰富，利用了文中的关键信息。
所使用语法结构和词汇丰富、准确可能有些许错误但完全不影响意义表达
有效地使用语句间的连接减分·使所续写短文结构累资。
第四档(16~20 分)
与所给短文融治度较高，与所提供的各段落开头语衔接较为合理。
内容比较丰富，基本利用了文中的关键信息。
所使用语法结构和词汇较为丰富、准确，可能有些许错误·但不影响意义表达。
-—比较有效地使用语句间的连接成分，使所续写的短文结构紧凑。
第三档(11~15 分)
与所给短文关系较为密切，与所提供的各段落开头语有一定程度的衔接。
写出了若干有关内容，部分利用了文中的关键信息。
应用的语法结构和词汇能满足任务的要求，虽有一些错误，但不影响意文表达。
使用简单的语句间连接成分，使全文内容连贯。
第二档(6~10分)
与所给短文有一定的关系，与所提供的各段落开头语有一定程度的衔接。
-写出了一些有关内容，较少利用文中的关键信息。
—语法结构单调，词汇有限，有语法结构和词汇方面的错误，且影响了意义的表达
较少使用语句间的连接减分·全文内容缺少连贯性。
第档(1~5分)
与所给短文和所提供的各段落开头语的衔接较差。
写出的内容较少，很少利用文中的关键信息，
语法结构单润，词汇很有限有较多语法结构和词汇方面的错误、严重影响了意义的表达。
缺乏语句间的连接成分，全文内容不连贯。
0分
未能传达给读者任何信息：白卷、内容太少无法评判或所写内容与所提供内容无关。
【高三10月质量检测·英语参考答案第6页（共6页）】
